# threat-intel-api

This repository contains sample code for threat intelligence providers who provide Quad9 with a threat intel feed. Contact Quad9 (support@quad9.net) for a valid API Key.

# Overview

threat-intel-api is an HTTP/Websocket service that allows threat intelligence (TI) providers to retrieve telemetry data generated from the malicious domain names they provide to Quad9 via their threat intelligence feeds.

Contact Quad9 at support@quad9.net if you are a threat intelligence provider and need a key. 

Clients will access the api via a websocket. If a client has multiple threat lists they will be given a separate token for each list.


## Requirements
Clients need:
- the url of the websocket (https://tiapi.quad9.net)
- an authorization token which can be requested at support@quad9.net


## API Business Rules

threat-intel-api was written with the following business rules in place:

- Clients must acknowledge each message they receive;
- Clients must acknowledge messages in the order they are received within 5 seconds. (This can be adjusted with a config setting)
- Multiple clients connecting with the same authorization token is allowed and increases throughput;
- If a client fails to acknowledge the messages they receive, in-order, the API will terminate the connection.
- If a client acknowledges your messages and needs a reset, contact support@quad9.net and we can reset it to 0.
- There is currently no way to retrieve data by date. We are working on it.


# Starting a Session

Clients initiate their session by making an HTTP GET request to the service. There is only one endpoint: "/". In this initial request, the client is expected to provide a "bearer" token in the `Authorization` header, like so:

```http
HTTP/``1.1 GET /
Authorization: Token <YOUR_TOKEN>
```

When the client supplies a valid, active token, their connection will be "upgraded" to a Websocket.



# Simple Curl Example

```shell
curl -i -N -H "Connection: Upgrade" -H "Upgrade: websocket" -H "Sec-WebSocket-Key: SGVsbG8sIHdvcmxkIQ==" -H "Sec-WebSocket-Version: 13" -H "Authorization: Token <YOUR_TOKEN>" https://tiapi.quad9.net >> output.txt
```

curl --output - -i -N -H "Connection: Upgrade" -H "Upgrade: websocket" -H "Sec-WebSocket-Key: SGVsbG8sIHdvcmxkIQ==" -H "Sec-WebSocket-Version: 13" -H "Authorization: Token <YOUR_TOKEN>" https://tiapi.quad9.net/


If it is working you will see output like:

```shell
% Total % Received % Xferd Average Speed Time Time Time Current
Dload Upload Total Spent Left Speed
100 14940 0 14940 0 0 1867 0 --:--:-- 0:00:08 --:--:-- 0
```

Sends to a file called output.txt

Example single entry:

```json
{
  "id": "6004",
  "qname": "blockeddomain.example.com",
  "qtype": "TXT",
  "timestamp": "2019-05-24T06:29:18.843081648Z",
  "city": "AQ",
  "region": "AQ",
  "country": "AQ"
}
```

- `id` = unique id for a single record
- `qname` = domain that the user queried for
- `qtype` = type of DNS record
- `timestamp` = time/date of the query
- `city` = city that the query originated from (or closest with the minimum population), can be blank
- `region` = region that the query originated from, can be blank
- `country` = two character country code (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1_alpha-2) that the query originated from, can be blank

*_Note: We have multiple sources for geographic data, but we snap/blur locations to the center of the closest city that is above the minimum population - it never moves out of a region (typically a country or nation) but you will not get granular geographic information for small cities. This is to ensure end user privacy._*

# Python Example

The example script `tia_example.py` was written against Python version 3.8. 
Convenient way to set up a Python and virtual environment on Linux:  https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-install-python-3-on-centos-7/


## Overview

The repository contains three files:
1. `requirements.txt` containing all required Python libraries

```
aiofile==3.8.1
environs==9.5.0
pyyaml==6.0
websockets==10.3
```

2. `config.yaml.example` - config file
```
ti_url: "wss://tiapi.quad9.net"
auth_token: ""
data_file: /output/stream.json
log_file: /output/tiapi.log
verbose: true
nolog: false
noack: false
```
- Replace `auth_token` with token received from support@quad9.net
- `data_file` - file to write the telemetry data 
- `log_file` - file to write logs generated by script
- `verbose` - if set to true, print retrieved data on command line, default: true
- `nolog` - no logging enabled, default: false
- `noack` - do not acknowledge retrieved data, default: false

3. `tiapi.py`


## Usage

```shell
(my_project_venv) [exampleuser@commandline]\$ python3 ./tiapi.py --config path-to-config-file
```

*_Replace `path-to-config-file`._*  

### If verbose==true:
With `verbose` set to true, data will be printed to command line:

```shell
(my_project_venv) [exampleuser@commandline]\$ ./tia_example.py --config path-to-config-file
{'id': '191960005', 'qname': 'blockeddomain.example.com', 'qtype': 'A', 'timestamp': '2018-12-11T03:15:47.038932839Z', 'city': 'San Jose', 'region': 'CA', 'country': 'US'}
{'id': '191961005', 'qname': 'blockeddomain.example.com', 'qtype': 'A', 'timestamp': '2018-12-11T03:15:47.051392978Z', 'city': 'San Jose', 'region': 'CA', 'country': 'US'}
{'id': '191962005', 'qname': 'blockeddomain.example.com', 'qtype': 'A', 'timestamp': '2018-12-11T03:15:47.0605273Z', 'city': 'San Jose', 'region': 'CA', 'country': 'US'}
{'id': '191963005', 'qname': 'blockeddomain.example.com', 'qtype': 'A', 'timestamp': '2018-12-11T03:15:47.102118471Z', 'city': 'San Jose', 'region': 'CA', 'country': 'US'}
```

Clients must acknowledge that messages have been received.

In the example above the script will send back to the server JSON objects of `{"id":'191960005'}` to indicate that it has successfully received and processed the JSON structure.

If the websocket is terminated before the ack is received by the server the message will be resent on the next connection.

